README.md, before:

# 🎌 AI Anime & Manga Recommendation System

A modern, scalable recommendation engine for anime and manga built with **Python, MongoDB, FAISS, and Sentence Transformers** — featuring:

• Intelligent semantic search
• Similar-title recommendations
• Terminal UI (TUI) dashboard
• API-ready backend
• Modular clean architecture
• Comprehensive error handling
• Type hints and documentation

This system aggregates large anime & manga datasets and delivers high‑quality personalized recommendations using hybrid AI ranking.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Install and run in 5 minutes
pip install -r requirements.txt
python cli_user_interface.py
```

**Try it out:**
- Press `s` for title search
- Type "attack" → see matching titles
- Press `Enter` → get AI recommendations
- Press `m` → find more similar titles

---

## 🚀 Key Features

✅ Semantic AI understanding (not keyword search)
✅ Hybrid ranking (AI + genres + popularity + ratings)
✅ Fast vector search with FAISS
✅ MongoDB scalable storage
✅ Autocomplete title search
✅ Professional terminal UI with panels
✅ Comprehensive error handling and validation
✅ Type hints throughout codebase
✅ Modular, maintainable architecture
✅ Ready for web frontend (React / Streamlit)

---

## 🧱 System Architecture

```
ai-Recommendation-TUI/
│
├── config.py              # Configuration constants and paths
├── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├── README.md              # This file
├── tests.py              # Unit tests
│
├── data/                 # Data files (embeddings, FAISS index)
│   ├── embeddings.pkl
│   └── faiss.index
│
├── db/                   # Database layer
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── mongo.py          # MongoDB operations
│
├── engine/               # Core recommendation engine
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── recommender.py    # Main recommender class
│   ├── hybrid_ranker.py  # Ranking algorithm
│   └── text_builder.py   # Text preprocessing
│
├── scripts/              # Build and utility scripts
│   ├── build_embeddings.py
│   └── build_index.py
│
├── cli.py                # Legacy terminal UI
├── cli_user_interface.py # Modern TUI dashboard
├── data_get.py           # Data fetching scripts
├── fetch_data.py         # API data fetching
└── json_to_database.py   # Data import script
```

---

## ⚙️ Installation

### Prerequisites
- **Python 3.13+** (required for optimal performance)
- **MongoDB** running locally or remote instance
- **4GB+ RAM** recommended for embedding generation

### Setup Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd ai-Recommendation-TUI

# Create virtual environment (recommended)
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Alternative Manual Installation
```bash
pip install pymongo sentence-transformers faiss-cpu numpy scikit-learn rich prompt_toolkit tqdm requests
```

### Database Setup
Ensure MongoDB is running:

```bash
# Local MongoDB
mongod

# Or use MongoDB Atlas (cloud)
# Update MONGO_URI in config.py
```

---

## 📥 Data Pipeline

### 1. Import Data
Fetch anime and manga metadata from external APIs:

```bash
# Run data collection scripts
python data_get.py
python fetch_data.py

# Import to MongoDB
python json_to_database.py
```

### 2. Build AI Search Index
Generate embeddings and create FAISS index:

```bash
# Build text embeddings (takes ~30-60 minutes for 150k titles)
python scripts/build_embeddings.py

# Create FAISS search index
python scripts/build_index.py
```

### 3. Verify Setup
```bash
# Check data count
python -c "from db.mongo import get_collection; print(f'Titles: {get_collection().count_documents({})}')"

# Test recommendation engine
python -c "from engine.recommender import Recommender; r = Recommender(); print('Engine ready!')"
```

---

## 🎯 Running the Recommendation Engine

### Modern Dashboard UI (recommended)

```bash
python cli_user_interface.py
```

Features:

* Modern terminal dashboard with live updates
* Multiple views: Dashboard, Search, Results, Help
* Keyboard-driven navigation
* Real-time status and metrics
* Structured layout with panels and tables
* Error handling and loading states

**Keyboard Shortcuts:**
- `d` - Dashboard view
- `t` - Text search (describe what you want)
- `s` - Title search (with autocomplete dropdown)
- `↑/↓` or `j/k` - Navigate results/matches
- `m` - Find more similar titles (in results view)
- `h` - Help
- `q` - Quit
- `Esc` - Cancel/Back

### Legacy Terminal UI

```bash
python cli.py
```

Features:

* Left menu panel
* Scrollable results
* Autocomplete titles
* Clean boxed UI

---

### Web UI (optional)

```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

---

## 🧠 Recommendation Modes

### 🔍 Semantic Search

Describe what you want:

> "dark fantasy with strong character development"

AI returns similar anime/manga.

---

### 🎯 Similar Title Mode

Enter a known anime or manga:

> Attack on Titan

System finds high‑similarity recommendations.

---

## 🔧 How It Works

### **Data Pipeline**
1. **Data Collection**: Anime and manga metadata is fetched from APIs (AniList, MangaDex)
2. **Storage**: Data is stored in MongoDB with fields like title, genres, description, ratings, etc.
3. **Preprocessing**: Text descriptions are built from metadata for semantic understanding
4. **Embedding Generation**: Sentence Transformers convert text into AI embeddings (vectors)
5. **Indexing**: FAISS creates a fast searchable index of these vectors

### **Recommendation Process**
1. **Query Processing**: User input (text description or title) is converted to embedding
2. **Vector Search**: FAISS finds semantically similar items using cosine similarity
3. **Candidate Selection**: Top 50-100 most similar items are retrieved
4. **Hybrid Ranking**: Results are re-ranked using multiple factors:
   - **Semantic Similarity**: How close the AI embeddings are
   - **Genre Matching**: Overlap between user preferences and item genres
   - **Popularity**: Normalized popularity scores
   - **Quality**: Average ratings and review counts
5. **Final Results**: Top 10 recommendations returned to user

### **Technical Details**
- **Embeddings**: 384-dimensional vectors from `all-MiniLM-L6-v2` model
- **Search Speed**: ~1ms per query using FAISS approximate nearest neighbors
- **Accuracy**: Hybrid ranking improves precision by 40% over pure semantic search
- **Scalability**: Handles 150k+ titles with sub-second response times

---

## 📊 Hybrid Ranking Formula

Results are scored using:

• Semantic similarity (AI embeddings)
• Genre overlap
• Popularity normalization
• Rating influence

This dramatically improves recommendation quality.

---

## ⚡ Performance

| Component            | Speed         | Notes |
| -------------------- | ------------- | ----- |
| FAISS search         | < 10ms       | Approximate nearest neighbors |
| MongoDB queries      | < 5ms        | Indexed document retrieval |
| Embedding generation | 30-60 min    | One-time setup for 150k titles |
| Memory usage         | ~2GB         | FAISS index + embeddings |
| Cold start           | ~3 seconds   | Model loading time |

**Scalability**: Handles 150k+ titles with sub-second response times. Linear scaling with dataset size.

---

## 🧪 Technologies Used

* **Python 3.13+** - Core runtime with type hints
* **MongoDB** - Document database for metadata storage
* **FAISS** - High-performance vector similarity search
* **Sentence Transformers** - AI model for text embeddings (`all-MiniLM-L6-v2`)
* **Rich** - Modern terminal UI framework
* **Prompt Toolkit** - Advanced terminal input handling
* **NumPy** - Numerical computing for vector operations
* **Scikit-learn** - Machine learning utilities
* **Streamlit** - Optional web UI framework

---

## 📈 Future Roadmap

* User profiles & taste learning
* Cover image previews
* Recommendation explainability
* React frontend
* Cloud deployment
* Real-time trending engine

---

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"FAISS index not found"**
```bash
# Rebuild the search index
python scripts/build_index.py
```

**"Sentence transformer model not found"**
```bash
# Clear cache and reinstall
pip uninstall sentence-transformers -y
pip install sentence-transformers
```

**"MongoDB connection failed"**
```bash
# Check MongoDB is running
mongod

# Or update connection string in config.py
```

**"Low memory error"**
- Reduce batch size in build scripts
- Use a machine with more RAM (8GB+ recommended)
- Process data in smaller chunks

### Performance Tuning

- **Faster searches**: Increase `DEFAULT_SEARCH_K` in config.py
- **Better quality**: Decrease `DEFAULT_SEARCH_K` for more precise results
- **Memory optimization**: Use FAISS GPU version if available

---

## 📜 License

MIT License

---

## ⭐ Support

If you find this useful, consider starring the repository!

Happy recommending 🚀

Commit message:

Update README to remove sections and add data info
Removed License and Support sections, added data upload information.

README.md, after:

# 🎌 AI Anime & Manga Recommendation System

A modern, scalable recommendation engine for anime and manga built with **Python, MongoDB, FAISS, and Sentence Transformers** — featuring:

• Intelligent semantic search
• Similar-title recommendations
• Terminal UI (TUI) dashboard
• API-ready backend
• Modular clean architecture
• Comprehensive error handling
• Type hints and documentation

This system aggregates large anime & manga datasets and delivers high‑quality personalized recommendations using hybrid AI ranking.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Install and run in 5 minutes
pip install -r requirements.txt
python cli_user_interface.py
```

**Try it out:**
- Press `s` for title search
- Type "attack" → see matching titles
- Press `Enter` → get AI recommendations
- Press `m` → find more similar titles

---

## 🚀 Key Features

✅ Semantic AI understanding (not keyword search)
✅ Hybrid ranking (AI + genres + popularity + ratings)
✅ Fast vector search with FAISS
✅ MongoDB scalable storage
✅ Autocomplete title search
✅ Professional terminal UI with panels
✅ Comprehensive error handling and validation
✅ Type hints throughout codebase
✅ Modular, maintainable architecture
✅ Ready for web frontend (React / Streamlit)

---

## 🧱 System Architecture

```
ai-Recommendation-TUI/
│
├── config.py              # Configuration constants and paths
├── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├── README.md              # This file
├── tests.py              # Unit tests
│
├── data/                 # Data files (embeddings, FAISS index)
│   ├── embeddings.pkl
│   └── faiss.index
│
├── db/                   # Database layer
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── mongo.py          # MongoDB operations
│
├── engine/               # Core recommendation engine
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── recommender.py    # Main recommender class
│   ├── hybrid_ranker.py  # Ranking algorithm
│   └── text_builder.py   # Text preprocessing
│
├── scripts/              # Build and utility scripts
│   ├── build_embeddings.py
│   └── build_index.py
│
├── cli.py                # Legacy terminal UI
├── cli_user_interface.py # Modern TUI dashboard
├── data_get.py           # Data fetching scripts
├── fetch_data.py         # API data fetching
└── json_to_database.py   # Data import script
```

---

## ⚙️ Installation

### Prerequisites
- **Python 3.13+** (required for optimal performance)
- **MongoDB** running locally or remote instance
- **4GB+ RAM** recommended for embedding generation

### Setup Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd ai-Recommendation-TUI

# Create virtual environment (recommended)
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Alternative Manual Installation
```bash
pip install pymongo sentence-transformers faiss-cpu numpy scikit-learn rich prompt_toolkit tqdm requests
```

### Database Setup
Ensure MongoDB is running:

```bash
# Local MongoDB
mongod

# Or use MongoDB Atlas (cloud)
# Update MONGO_URI in config.py
```

---

## 📥 Data Pipeline

### 1. Import Data
Fetch anime and manga metadata from external APIs:

```bash
# Run data collection scripts
python data_get.py
python fetch_data.py

# Import to MongoDB
python json_to_database.py
```

### 2. Build AI Search Index
Generate embeddings and create FAISS index:

```bash
# Build text embeddings (takes ~30-60 minutes for 150k titles)
python scripts/build_embeddings.py

# Create FAISS search index
python scripts/build_index.py
```

### 3. Verify Setup
```bash
# Check data count
python -c "from db.mongo import get_collection; print(f'Titles: {get_collection().count_documents({})}')"

# Test recommendation engine
python -c "from engine.recommender import Recommender; r = Recommender(); print('Engine ready!')"
```

---

## 🎯 Running the Recommendation Engine

### Modern Dashboard UI (recommended)

```bash
python cli_user_interface.py
```

Features:

* Modern terminal dashboard with live updates
* Multiple views: Dashboard, Search, Results, Help
* Keyboard-driven navigation
* Real-time status and metrics
* Structured layout with panels and tables
* Error handling and loading states

**Keyboard Shortcuts:**
- `d` - Dashboard view
- `t` - Text search (describe what you want)
- `s` - Title search (with autocomplete dropdown)
- `↑/↓` or `j/k` - Navigate results/matches
- `m` - Find more similar titles (in results view)
- `h` - Help
- `q` - Quit
- `Esc` - Cancel/Back

### Legacy Terminal UI

```bash
python cli.py
```

Features:

* Left menu panel
* Scrollable results
* Autocomplete titles
* Clean boxed UI

---

### Web UI (optional)

```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

---

## 🧠 Recommendation Modes

### 🔍 Semantic Search

Describe what you want:

> "dark fantasy with strong character development"

AI returns similar anime/manga.

---

### 🎯 Similar Title Mode

Enter a known anime or manga:

> Attack on Titan

System finds high‑similarity recommendations.

---

## 🔧 How It Works

### **Data Pipeline**
1. **Data Collection**: Anime and manga metadata is fetched from APIs (AniList, MangaDex)
2. **Storage**: Data is stored in MongoDB with fields like title, genres, description, ratings, etc.
3. **Preprocessing**: Text descriptions are built from metadata for semantic understanding
4. **Embedding Generation**: Sentence Transformers convert text into AI embeddings (vectors)
5. **Indexing**: FAISS creates a fast searchable index of these vectors

### **Recommendation Process**
1. **Query Processing**: User input (text description or title) is converted to embedding
2. **Vector Search**: FAISS finds semantically similar items using cosine similarity
3. **Candidate Selection**: Top 50-100 most similar items are retrieved
4. **Hybrid Ranking**: Results are re-ranked using multiple factors:
   - **Semantic Similarity**: How close the AI embeddings are
   - **Genre Matching**: Overlap between user preferences and item genres
   - **Popularity**: Normalized popularity scores
   - **Quality**: Average ratings and review counts
5. **Final Results**: Top 10 recommendations returned to user

### **Technical Details**
- **Embeddings**: 384-dimensional vectors from `all-MiniLM-L6-v2` model
- **Search Speed**: ~1ms per query using FAISS approximate nearest neighbors
- **Accuracy**: Hybrid ranking improves precision by 40% over pure semantic search
- **Scalability**: Handles 150k+ titles with sub-second response times

---

## 📊 Hybrid Ranking Formula

Results are scored using:

• Semantic similarity (AI embeddings)
• Genre overlap
• Popularity normalization
• Rating influence

This dramatically improves recommendation quality.

---

## ⚡ Performance

| Component            | Speed         | Notes |
| -------------------- | ------------- | ----- |
| FAISS search         | < 10ms       | Approximate nearest neighbors |
| MongoDB queries      | < 5ms        | Indexed document retrieval |
| Embedding generation | 30-60 min    | One-time setup for 150k titles |
| Memory usage         | ~2GB         | FAISS index + embeddings |
| Cold start           | ~3 seconds   | Model loading time |

**Scalability**: Handles 150k+ titles with sub-second response times. Linear scaling with dataset size.

---

## 🧪 Technologies Used

* **Python 3.13+** - Core runtime with type hints
* **MongoDB** - Document database for metadata storage
* **FAISS** - High-performance vector similarity search
* **Sentence Transformers** - AI model for text embeddings (`all-MiniLM-L6-v2`)
* **Rich** - Modern terminal UI framework
* **Prompt Toolkit** - Advanced terminal input handling
* **NumPy** - Numerical computing for vector operations
* **Scikit-learn** - Machine learning utilities
* **Streamlit** - Optional web UI framework

---

## 📈 Future Roadmap

* User profiles & taste learning
* Cover image previews
* Recommendation explainability
* React frontend
* Cloud deployment
* Real-time trending engine

---

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"FAISS index not found"**
```bash
# Rebuild the search index
python scripts/build_index.py
```

**"Sentence transformer model not found"**
```bash
# Clear cache and reinstall
pip uninstall sentence-transformers -y
pip install sentence-transformers
```

**"MongoDB connection failed"**
```bash
# Check MongoDB is running
mongod

# Or update connection string in config.py
```

**"Low memory error"**
- Reduce batch size in build scripts
- Use a machine with more RAM (8GB+ recommended)
- Process data in smaller chunks

### Performance Tuning

- **Faster searches**: Increase `DEFAULT_SEARCH_K` in config.py
- **Better quality**: Decrease `DEFAULT_SEARCH_K` for more precise results
- **Memory optimization**: Use FAISS GPU version if available

---

## Data
Also i am uploading the data too. happy hacking with the data. Includes data from anilist, kitsu, mangadex. Pick your poison
